Docs: Add field config documentation (#24647)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/panels/field-configuration-options.md

type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
parent = "panels"
weight = 300
+++

# Field configuration options

This page explains what field configurations and field overrides in Grafana are and how to use them. It also includes [examples](#examples) if you need an idea of how this feature might be useful in the real world.

> **Note:** This documentation refers to a Grafana 7.0 beta feature. This documentation will be frequently updated to reflect updates to the feature, and it will probably be broken into smaller sections when the feature moves out of beta.

The data model behind Grafana, the [data frame]({{< relref "../developers/plugins/data-frames.md" >}}), is a columnar-oriented table structure. 

Each column within this structure is called a _field_. Grafana allows to customize how a particular field is displayed in the visualization.

## Field configuration options and overrides

Field configuration options allow you to change how the data is displayed in your visualizations. Options and overrides that you apply do not change the data, they change how Grafana displays the data.

> **Note:** The time fields are not affected by field configuration options or overrides.

> _Field configuration options_, both standard and custom, are applied in the **Field** tab in the panel editor. Changes on this panel apply to all fields in the visualization. For example, if you change the unit to percentage, then all fields with numeric values will be calculated in percentages. [Apply a field option](#configure-all-fields).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Field configuration options_, both standard and custom, are applied in the **Field** tab in the panel editor. Changes on this panel apply to all fields in the visualization. For example, if you change the unit to percentage, then all fields with numeric values will be displayed in percentages. [Apply a field option](#configure-all-fields).
```

There is no calculation happening

_Field overrides_ are applied in the _Overrides_ tab in the panel editor. They are exactly the same as field configuration options except that they only change fields you select. The current feature only allows you to change one field at a time, but future improvements will offer more flexibility. [Apply an override](#override-a-field).

All [field options](#field-options) are defined below.

### Standard field options

Standard field options are:

- [Unit](#unit)
- [Min](#min)
- [Max](#max)
- [Decimals](#decimals)
- [Display name](#display-name)
- [No value](#no-value)
- [Thresholds](#thresholds)
- [Value mappings](#value-mapping)
- [Data links](#data-links)

You can apply standard field options to the following panel visualizations:

- Bar gauge
- Gauge
- Stat
- Table

### Custom field options

> You can only apply custom field options to table visualizations.

Reviewer: So regarding this one. I think we should drop a line about custom being defined by panel authors and may differ across visualizations. The custom ones you are describing below are indeed only available in the table panel.

Author: I added some text, but keep in mind that this is Grafana documentation, not plugin documentation.

Custom field options are:

- [Column width](#column-width)
- [Column alignment](#column-alignment)
- [Cell display mode](#cell-display-mode)

## Configure all fields

To change how all fields display data, you apply a [field option](#field-options). Usually you apply changes that you want to most or all of the fields here, than apply field overrides to exceptions.

1. Navigate to the panel you want to edit, click the panel title, and then click **Edit**.
2. Click the **Field** tab.

> 3. Find the 

Reviewer: ?

Author: Diana was tired and lost her train of thought.

Reviewer: yes, that's tru

4. Enter options by adding values in the fields. To return options to default values, delete the white text in the fields.
5. When finished, click **Save** to save all panel edits to the dashboard.

## Override a field

Field overrides allow you to change the settings for one field (column in tables) to be different than the others. Field options for overrides are exactly the same as the field options available in a particular visualization. The only difference is that you choose which field to apply them to. 

1. Navigate to the panel you want to edit, click the panel title, and then click **Edit**.
1. Click the **Overrides** tab.
1. Click **Add override**.
1. Select a filter option to choose which fields the override applies to. 
   

>    **Note:** Currently you can only match by name, so after you choose the filter, select which field it applies to in the dropdown list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **Note:** Currently you can only match by name, so after you choose the filter, select which field it applies to from the dropdown list.
```

1. Click **Add override property**.
1. Select the [field option](#field-options) you want to apply.
1. Enter options by adding values in the fields. To return options to default values, delete the white text in the fields.
1. Continue to add overrides to this field by clicking **Add override property**, or you can click **Add override** and select a different field to add overrides to.
1. When finished, click **Save** to save all panel edits to the dashboard.

## Field options

This section explains all available field options. They are listed in alphabetical order.

> Most field options will not affect the visualization until you click outside of the field option box you are editing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most field options will not affect the visualization until you click outside of the field option box you are editing or press Enter.
```

### Cell display mode

> This custom field option applies only to table visualizations.

Reviewer: Shouldn't we to it like this:
`
> This custom field option applies only to table visualizations.
`

Author: You add notes to draw attention to something. We do not want to overuse notes, because that reduces their impact. In this case, it is fine as written.

Reviewer 2: Should we move:
* Cell display mode
* Column alignment
* Column width

to the table documentation?  each visualization *may* have per/field settings

I think "custom" makes sense for plugin authors, but not for people using the panel

Author: No. We should keep the field options together for now, but I will be crosslinking the topics once everything is merged.

Author: The UI question, however, I agree with you. Calling them "custom" when they really aren't is weird, but that is a 7.1 thing at the earliest.

- **Color background -** If thresholds are set, then the field background is displayed in the appropriate threshold color.
- **Gradient gauge -** The threshold levels define a gradient.
- **LCD gauge -** The gauge is split up in small cells that are lit or unlit.
- **JSON view -** Shows value formatted as code. If a value is an object the JSON view allowing browsing the JSON object will appear on hover

### Column alignment

This custom field option applies only to table visualizations.

Choose how Grafana should align cell contents:
- Auto (default)
- Left
- Center
- Right

### Column width

This custom field option applies only to table visualizations.

By default, Grafana automatically calculates the column width based on the cell contents. In this field option, can override the setting and define the width for all columns in pixels.

For example, if you enter `100` in the field, then when you click outside the field, all the columns will be set to 100 pixels wide.

### Decimals

Number of decimals to render value with. Leave empty for Grafana to use the number of decimals provided by the data source.

> To change this setting, type a number in the field and then click outside the field. The visualization does not change while the cursor is still in the **Decimals** field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change this setting, type a number in the field and then click outside the field or press Enter.
```

### Data links

Lets you control the URL to which a value or visualization link.

For more information and instructions, refer to [Data links]({{< relref "../linking/data-links.md" >}}).

### Display name

Lets you set the display title of all fields. You can use [variables]({{< relref "../variables/templates-and-variables.md" >}}) in the field title.

When multiple stats are shown, this field controls the title in each stat. By default this is the series name and field name. You can use expressions like ${__series.name} or ${__field.name} to use only series name or field name in title or ${__cell_2} to refer to other fields (2 being field/column with index 2).

### Max

Lets you set the maximum value used in percentage threshold calculations. Leave blank for auto calculation based on all series and fields

### Min

Lets you set the minimum value used in percentage threshold calculations. Leave blank for auto calculation based on all series and fields

### No value

> Enter what Grafana should display if the query returns no value for a field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enter what Grafana should display if the field value is empty or null.
```
